Docsp 31495 specify query pg (#16)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/query.txt

documents to include in the result set.

In a query document, you can match fields against literal values, such as
``{ title: 'The Room' }``, or you can compose
:manual:`query operators </reference/operator/query/>` to express more
complex matching criteria. In this guide, we cover the following categories
of query operators in MongoDB and show examples on how to use them:

- :manual:`Comparison Operators </reference/operator/query-comparison/>`

- :manual:`Logical Operators </reference/operator/query-logical/>`

- :manual:`Element Operators </reference/operator/query-element/>`

- :manual:`Evaluation Operators </reference/operator/query-evaluation/>`

The examples in this guide use the following sample documents. Each
document represents a fruit in a store's inventory, and contains
information about its quantity, and its rating:

.. code-block:: rust

   { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "quantity": 7, "rating": 5 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "apple", "quantity": 4, "rating": 6, "description": "a red or green fruit" },
   { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36, "rating": 8 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "rating": 4 }

> 

Reviewer: S: Somewhere, explain that an empty query filter returns all documents in a collection

parts: a field name and a value. Documents returned from such a query
must contain a field that has exactly the same name as the provided name
and a value for that field that is exactly the same as the provided
value. The following operation uses a literal query to search for
documents containing a field called "name" that has a value of "pear":

.. code-block:: rust

   let query = doc! { "name": "pear" };
   let find_options = FindOptions::builder().sort(doc! { "title": 1 }).build();
   let mut cursor = myColl.find(query, find_options).await?;
   while let Some(Document) = cursor.try_next().await? {
     println!("{}", Document);
   }

This code snippet returns the following results:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "rating": 4 }

.. note::

  Literal value queries are equivalent to the ``$eq`` comparison
  operator. As a result, the following two queries are equivalent:

  .. code-block:: rust

      myColl.find(doc! {
         "rating": doc! { "$eq": 5 }
      }).await?;

  .. code-block:: rust

      myColl.find(doc! {
         "rating": 5
      }).await?;

> Comparison Operators
> --------------------

Reviewer: S: Change all headings

```suggestion
Comparison
------------
```

> Comparison operators allow you to query for data based on comparisons
> with values in a collection. Common comparison operators include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparison operators allow you to query for documents by comparing them
to values in the query filter. Common comparison operators include
```

``$gt`` for "greater than" comparisons, ``$lt`` for "less than" comparisons,
and ``$ne`` for "not equal to" comparisons. The following operation uses
the comparison operator ``$gt`` to search for documents with a quantity

> value greater than 5 and prints them out:

Reviewer: S: same feedback - move to file and separate into a new section

.. code-block:: rust

   // $gt means "greater than"
   let query = doc! { "quantity": doc! { $"gt": 5 } };

>    let find_options = FindOptions::builder().sort(doc! { "title": 1 }).build();

Reviewer: S: leave options as `None` in all examples

   let mut cursor = myColl.find(query, find_options).await?;
   while let Some(Document) = cursor.try_next().await? {
     println!("{}", Document);
   }

This code snippet returns the following results:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "qty": 6, "rating": 2 }
   { "_id": 2, "name": "banana", "qty": 7, "rating": 1 }
   { "_id": 4, "fruit": "pear", "quantity": 28, "rating": 4 }

Logical Operators
-----------------

> Logical operators allow you to query for data using logic applied to the
> results of field-level operators. For instance, you can use the ``$or``
> method to query for documents that match either a ``$gt`` comparison
> operator or a literal value query. The following operation uses the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logical operators require with at least two match criteria and match documents based on
if they meet some, all, or none of these criteria. A common ....

 ... The following operation uses the
```

logical operator ``$not`` to search for documents with a quantity value
that is not greater than 5 and prints them out:

.. code-block:: rust

>    let query = doc! { "qty": doc! { "$not": doc! { "$gt": 5 }}};

Reviewer: S: change this example to use `$and` or `$or` to display the syntax of using multiple query statements

   let find_options = FindOptions::builder().sort(doc! { "title": 1 }).build();
   let mut cursor = myColl.find(query, find_options).await?;
   while let Some(Document) = cursor.try_next().await? {
     println!("{}", Document);
   }

This code snippet returns the following results:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 2, "fruit": "apple", "quantity": 4, "rating": 6, "description": "a red or green fruit" }

.. note::

>   Whenever a query document contains multiple elements, those elements
>   are combined together with an implicit ``$and`` logical operator to
>   figure out which documents match the query. As a result, the following
>   two queries are equivalent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If a query filter contains a literal value query with multiple field-value pairs,
  the driver matches documents that meet all of the criteria.
  
  For example, the following queries produce equivalent results:
```

  .. code-block:: rust

     myColl.find(doc! {
       "rating": doc! { "$eq": 5 },
       "qty": doc! { "$gt": 4 }
     });

  .. code-block:: rust

     myColl.find(doc! {
       $and: [
          doc! { "rating": { "$eq": 5 }},
          doc! { "qty": { "$gt": 4 }}
       ]
     });

For more information on comparison operators, see the reference manual

> entry for :manual:`Comparison Query Operators </reference/operator/query-comparison/>`.

Reviewer: I: This should link to the logical operators section in the manual.
S: change to link to the correct place, also add this similar link for each section

Element Operators
-----------------

> Element operators allow you to query based on the presence, absence, or
> type of field. The following operation uses the element operator

Reviewer: S: simplify the language, the parallelism between presence, absence, and type is confusing

```suggestion
Element operators allow you to match documents based on the types of specified fields and if they include specified fields. The following operation uses the element operator
```

``$exists`` to search for documents containing the ``description``
field:

.. code-block:: rust

   let query = doc! { "description": doc! { "$exists": true } };
   let find_options = FindOptions::builder().build();
   let mut cursor = myColl.find(query, find_options);
   while let Some(Document) = cursor.try_next().await? {
     println!("{}", Document);
   }

This code snippet returns the following results:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 2, "fruit": "apple", "quantity": 4, "rating": 6, "description": "a red or green fruit" }

For more information on this operator, see the reference manual entry for

> the :manual:`$exists operator </reference/operator/query/exists/>`.

Reviewer: S: Instead of linking to the specific operator, link to the list of operators in the element category

Evaluation Operators
--------------------

> Evaluation operators allow you to execute higher-level logic, like
> regex and text searches, when querying for documents in a collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation operators match documents by analyzing values in specified fields.
```

> Common evaluation operators include ``$regex`` and ``$text``.

Reviewer: S: explain what these operators do at a high level

The following operation uses the evaluation operator ``$mod`` to search
for documents with a quantity value that is divisible by 3 with
a remainder of 0:

.. code-block:: javascript

   // $mod means "modulo" and returns the remainder after division
   let query = doc! { "qty": doc! { "$mod": [ 3, 0 ] } };
   let find_options = FindOptions::builder().build();
   let mut cursor = myColl.find(query, find_options);
   while let Some(Document) = cursor.try_next().await? {
     println!("{}", Document);
   }

This code snippet returns the following results:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 3, "fruit": "banana", "quantity": 36, "rating": 8 }

For more information on this operator, see the reference manual entry for

> the :manual:`$mod operator </reference/operator/query/mod/>`.

Reviewer: S: Add an additional information & API documentation

   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify a query to match a subset
of documents.

.. rust-query-filter-definition:

To match a subset of documents, specify a **query filter** containing
your **match criteria**. Match criteria consist of the fields and
values you want present in a document. A query filter contains at least
one set of match criteria to determine which documents to include in the
resulting set. An empty query filter returns all the documents in a collection.

In a query filter, you can match fields with :ref:`literal values
<rust-literal-values>` or with :ref:`query operators
<rust-query-operators>`. Query operators allow you to perform mathematical
or logical operations to locate documents within a collection.

Match criteria with literal values use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   filter = doc! {"<field>", "<value>"};

Match criteria with a query operator use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   filter = doc! {"<field>", doc! {"<operator>", "<value>"}};

The following sections use :ref:`literal values <rust-literal-values>`

> and :ref:`query operators <rust-query-operators>` with the ``Find()``

Reviewer: I: this isn't a rust method
S: use ``find()``

```suggestion
and :ref:`query operators <rust-query-operators>` with the ``find()``
```

> The following sections use :ref:`literal values <rust-literal-values>`
> and :ref:`query operators <rust-query-operators>` with the ``Find()``
> method to match a subset of documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples in the following sections show how to specify queries by using the ``find()``
method to match documents in a collection.
```

This guide includes the following sections:

> - :ref:`Sample Data for Examples <rust-query-sample-data>`: Presents
>   the sample data that is used by the read operation examples.

Reviewer: S: text after colons should be lowercase (change in all bullet pts)
```suggestion
- :ref:`Sample Data for Examples <rust-query-sample-data>`: presents
  the sample data that is used by the read operation examples.
```

- :ref:`Literal Value Queries <rust-literal-values>`: Describes how to
  query for data that exactly matches a value you provide in the query
  filter.

- :ref:`Comparison Operators <rust-query-operators>`: Describes how to
  query for data based on comparisons with values in a collection.

- :ref:`Logical Operators <rust-logical-operators>`: Describes how to
  query for data using logic applied to the results of field-level operators.

- :ref:`Element Operators <rust-element-operators>`: Describes how to
  query based on the presence, absence, or type of field.

- :ref:`Evaluation Operators <rust-evaluation-operators>`: Describes how
  to execute higher-level logic, like regex and text searches, when
  querying for documents in a collection.

> 

Reviewer: I: this guide is still missing bitwise and array operators. https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/query/#query-selectors
This page should cover all but geospatial
S: add sections describing these operators

.. _rust-query-sample-data:

Sample Data
-----------

The examples in this guide use the following sample documents. Each
document represents a fruit in a store's inventory, and contains
information about its quantity, and its price:

.. code-block:: rust

   { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "quantity": 7, "price": 5 },

>    { "_id": 2, "name": "apple", "quantity": 4, "price": 2, "description": "a red or green fruit" },

Reviewer: S; change the description field in document 2 to be shorter so that there is no horizontal scroll

   { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36, "price": 4 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "price": 6 }

.. _rust-literal-values:

Literal Values
--------------

Literal value query filters allow you to query for data that exactly matches
a value you provide in the query filter. The following operation uses a

> literal query to search for documents containing a field called "name"
> that has the value of "pear":

Reviewer: S: monospace all field and value names wherever present
```suggestion
literal query to search for documents containing a field called ``"name"``
that has the value of ``"pear"``:
```

.. io-code-block::

>    .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs

Reviewer: S: make copyable
add `:copyable: true`

      :start-after: begin-literal
      :end-before: end-literal
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::

>       :language: rust

Reviewer: S: the output for all of these should be in json or none

Reviewer: This still needs to be resolved
```suggestion
      :language: json
```

>       { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36, "price": 4 }

Reviewer: I: this output does not match the expected output by searching for a literal of "pear" -- please double check and make sure all of your output matches what actually is printed when you run the file.

.. note::

   Literal value queries function identically to queries that use the ``$eq`` comparison
   operator. For example, the following queries are equivalent:

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         "price": doc! { "$eq": 5 }
      }).await?;

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         "price": 5
      }).await?;

.. _rust-query-operators:

Comparison
----------

Comparison operators allow you to query for documents by comparing them
to values in the query filter. Common comparison operators include
``$gt`` for "greater than" comparisons, ``$lt`` for "less than" comparisons,
and ``$ne`` for "not equal to" comparisons. 

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following operation uses the comparison operator ``$gt`` to search
> for documents with a quantity value greater than 5 and prints them out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following operation uses the comparison operator ``$gt`` to match
documents with a ``quantity`` value greater than ``5``:
```

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-comparison
      :end-before: end-comparison
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::

>       :language: rust

Reviewer: S: make all output visible false by default
:visible: false

      { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "qty": 6, "price": 5 },
      { "_id": 2, "name": "banana", "qty": 7, "price": 4 },
      { "_id": 4, "fruit": "pear", "quantity": 28, "price": 6 }

For more information on comparison operators, see the reference manual
entry for :manual:`Comparison Query Operators </reference/operator/query-comparison/>`.

.. _rust-logical-operators:

Logical
-------

Logical operators require at least two match criteria and match documents based on

> if they meet some, all, or none of these criteria. For instance, you can use the ``$or``

Reviewer: S: replace for instance with for example per the [style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#f:~:text=figures%20and%20tables.-,for%20instance,-Use%20for%20example)

method to query for documents that match either a ``$gt`` comparison
operator or a literal value query. 

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the logical operator ``$and`` to search for
documents with a quantity value that is greater than 5 and a price that

> is less than 5 and prints them out:

Reviewer: S: monospace fields and values, remove "prints them out"

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-logical
      :end-before: end-logical
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: rust

      { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "price": 6 }

> .. note::

Reviewer: S: add a space

   If a query filter contains a literal value query with multiple field-value pairs,
   the driver matches documents that meet all of the criteria.

   For example, the following queries produce equivalent results:

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         "price": doc! { "$eq": 5 },
         "qty": doc! { "$gt": 4 }
      });

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         $and: vec! [
            doc! { "price": { "$eq": 5 }},
            doc! { "qty": { "$gt": 4 }}
         ]
      });

For a full list of logical operators, see the :manual:`Logical
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-logical/>` page.

.. _rust-element-operators:

Element
-------

> Element operators allow you to match documents based on the types of
> specified fields and if they include specified fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Element operators allow you to match documents based on the types of
specified fields or if they include specified fields. 
```

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the element operator
``$exists`` to search for documents containing the ``description``
field:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-element
      :end-before: end-element
      :language: rust
      :dedent:
   
   .. output::
      :language: rust

      { "_id": 2, "fruit": "apple", "quantity": 4, "price": 6, "description": "a red or green fruit" }

For a full list of element operators, see the :manual:`Element
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-element/>` page.

.. _rust-evaluation-operators:

Evaluation
----------

Evaluation operators match documents by analyzing values in specified

> fields.

Reviewer: S: provide more explanation on what analyzing means in this context

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the evaluation operator ``$mod`` to search
for documents with a quantity value that is divisible by 3 with
a remainder of 0:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-evaluation
      :end-before: end-evaluation
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: rust

      { "_id": 3, "fruit": "banana", "quantity": 36, "price": 8 }

For a full list of evaluation operators, see the :manual:`Evaluation
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-evaluation/>` page.

Additional Information
----------------------

> For more information on specifying a query and operators, see the manual on
> :manual:`Query Operators </reference/operator/query/>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about query operators, see :manual:`Query Selectors </reference/operator/query/>` in the Server manual.
```

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types used in this
guide, see the following API Documentation:

> - `Find() <{+api+}//#finding-documents-in-a-collection>`__

Reviewer: I; broken link
S: link to 
```suggestion
- `find() <{+api+}/struct.Collection.html#method.find>`__
```

.. _rust-query-guide:

===============
Specify a Query
===============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify a query to match a subset
of documents.

.. rust-query-filter-definition:

To match a subset of documents, specify a **query filter** containing
your **match criteria**. Match criteria consist of the fields and
values you want documents to match. A query filter contains at least
one set of match criteria to determine which documents to return. An
empty query filter matches all of the documents in a collection.

In a query filter, you can match fields with :ref:`literal values
<rust-literal-values>` or with query operators. Query operators allow
you to perform mathematical or logical operations to locate documents within a collection.

To match criteria with literal values use the following format:

> .. code-block:: rust
>    :copyable: false
> 
>    filter = doc! { "<field>": "<value>" };
> 
> To match criteria that include query operators use the following format:
> 
> .. code-block:: rust
>    :copyable: false
> 
>    filter = doc! { "<field>": doc! { "<operator>": "<value>" } };

Reviewer: S: these still need `let` declarations
```suggestion
.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   let filter = doc! { "<field>": "<value>" };

To match criteria that include query operators use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   let filter = doc! { "<field>": doc! { "<operator>": "<value>" } };
```

The examples in the following sections show how to specify queries by using the ``find()``
method to match documents in a collection.

This guide includes the following sections:

> - :ref:`Sample Data for Examples <rust-query-sample-data>`: presents
>   the sample data that is used by the read operation examples.

Reviewer: S: remove the periods from these descriptions
```suggestion
- :ref:`Sample Data for Examples <rust-query-sample-data>`: presents
  the sample data that is used by the read operation examples
```

> - :ref:`Literal Value Queries <rust-literal-values>`: describes how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Literal Values <rust-literal-values>`: describes how to
```

  query for data that exactly matches a value you provide in the query
  filter.

- :ref:`Comparison Operators <rust-query-operators>`: describes how to
  query for data based on comparisons with values in a collection.

- :ref:`Logical Operators <rust-logical-operators>`: describes how to
  query for data using logic applied to the results of field-level operators.

- :ref:`Element Operators <rust-element-operators>`: describes how to
  query based on the presence, absence, or type of field.

- :ref:`Evaluation Operators <rust-evaluation-operators>`: describes how
  to execute higher-level logic, like regex and text searches, when
  querying for documents in a collection.

> 

Reviewer: S: Add the new sections to this list

.. _rust-query-sample-data:

Sample Data
-----------

> The examples in this guide use the following sample documents. Each
> document represents a fruit in a store's inventory, and contains
> information about its ``quantity``, and its ``price``:

Reviewer: S: update this description so that it describes all of the fields. I also don't think the description needs to have monospace, as its not directly referencing the fields, but what they describe
```suggestion
The examples in this guide use the following sample documents. Each
document represents a fruit in a store's inventory, and contains
information about its quantity and price. Some documents contain additional fields that describe
the fruit or its vendors:
```

.. code-block:: rust

>    { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "quantity": 7, "price": 5 },
>    { "_id": 2, "name": "apple", "quantity": 4, "price": 2, "description": "Granny Smith" },
>    { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36, "price": 4 },
>    { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "price": 6, "vendorS": ["A", "C" ] }

Reviewer: S: since there's still horizontal scroll, can we remove either the `quantity` or `price` fields? Also, it looks like theres a capitalization error in `vendors`
```suggestion
   { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "quantity": 7, "price": 5 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "apple", "quantity": 4, "price": 2, "description": "Granny Smith" },
   { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36, "price": 4 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "pear", "quantity": 28, "price": 6, "vendors": ["A", "C" ] }
```

      }).await?;

.. _rust-query-operators:

Comparison
----------

Comparison operators allow you to query for documents by comparing them
to values in the query filter. Common comparison operators include
``$gt`` for "greater than" comparisons, ``$lt`` for "less than" comparisons,
and ``$ne`` for "not equal to" comparisons. 

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the comparison operator ``$gt`` to match
documents with a ``quantity`` value greater than ``5``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-comparison
      :end-before: end-comparison
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      {
        "_id": 1,
        "name": "orange",
        "quantity": 7,
        "price": 5
      }
      {
        "_id": 3,
        "name": "banana",
        "quantity": 36,
        "price": 4
      }
      {
        "_id": 4,
        "name": "pear",
        "quantity": 28,
        "price": 6,
         "vendors": [
            "A",
            "C"
         ]
      }

For more information on comparison operators, see the reference manual

> entry for :manual:`Comparison Query Operators </reference/operator/query-comparison/>`.

Reviewer: S: all of the sentences that link to the manual should be formatted as laid out in [this comment](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-rust/pull/16#discussion_r1280712796)

Logical
-------

Logical operators require at least two match criteria and match documents based on
if they meet some, all, or none of these criteria. For example, you can use the ``$or``
method to query for documents that match either a ``$gt`` comparison
operator or a literal value query. 

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the logical operator ``$and`` to match
documents with a ``quantity`` value that is greater than ``10`` and a ``price`` that
is less than ``5``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-logical
      :end-before: end-logical
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      {
         "_id": 3,
         "name": "banana",
         "quantity": 36,
         "price": 4
      }

.. note::

   If a query filter contains a literal value query with multiple field-value pairs,
   the driver matches documents that meet all of the criteria.

   For example, the following queries produce equivalent results:

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         "price": doc! { "$eq": 5 },

>          "qty": doc! { "$gt": 4 }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         "quantity": doc! { "$gt": 4 }
```

      });

   .. code-block:: rust

      my_coll.find(doc! {
         $and: vec! [
            doc! { "price": { "$eq": 5 }},

>             doc! { "qty": { "$gt": 4 }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            doc! { "quantity": { "$gt": 4 }}
```

         ]
      });

For a full list of logical operators, see the :manual:`Logical
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-logical/>` page.

.. _rust-element-operators:

Element
-------

Element operators allow you to match documents based on the types of
specified fields or if they include specified fields. 

Example
~~~~~~~

The following operation uses the element operator
``$exists`` to search for documents containing the ``description``
field:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-element
      :end-before: end-element
      :language: rust
      :dedent:
   
   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      {
         "_id": 2,
         "name": "apple",
         "quantity": 4,
         "price": 2,
         "description": "Granny Smith"
      }

For a full list of element operators, see the :manual:`Element
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-element/>` page.

.. _rust-evaluation-operators:

Evaluation
----------

> Evaluation operators match documents based on evaluations of either
> individual fields or the entire collection's documents.

Reviewer: S: right now, this sentence still doesn't explain what an evaluation operator actually does. I think it would help readers to understand what evaluation entails
```suggestion
Evaluation operators analyze individual fields or a collection's documents to
determine if they meet certain criteria. Each evaluation operator performs a different function.
For example, the ``$mod`` operator performs a mathematical operation on a field value, and the ``$where`` operator allows you to evaluate values against JavaScript expressions.
```

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following operation uses the evaluation operator ``$mod`` to search
> for documents with a ``quantity`` value that is divisible by 3 with
> a remainder of 0:

Reviewer: S: including the remainder clause is redundant, as if a number is divisible by some divisor, the remainder must be 0 by definition
```suggestion
The following operation uses the evaluation operator ``$mod`` to search
for documents with a ``quantity`` value that is divisible by 3:
```

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-evaluation
      :end-before: end-evaluation
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      {
         "_id": 3,
         "name": "banana",
         "quantity": 36,
         "price": 4
      }

For a full list of evaluation operators, see the :manual:`Evaluation
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-evaluation/>` page.

Bitwise
-------

Bitwise operators convert a numeric field from a base-10 (decimal)
number into the corresponding base-2 (binary) number. They check whether
the value in a document has the same bits set as the value in your match
criteria.

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following example matches documents where the ``price`` has the same
> bits set as ``6`` (which is "00000110"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example matches documents where the ``price`` has the same
bits set as ``6``, which is equivalent to ``00000110`` in binary:
```

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-bitwise
      :end-before: end-bitwise
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: rust
      :visible: false

      {
         "_id": 4,
         "name": "pear",
         "quantity": 28,
         "price": 6,
         "vendors": [
            "A",
            "C"
         ]
      }

For a full list of bitwise operators, see the :manual:`Bitwise
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-bitwise/>` page.

Array
-----

> Array operators check the values or amount of elements in an array field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array operators check the values or amount of elements in an array-valued field.
```

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following example matches documents where the ``vendor`` contains
> "C":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example matches documents where the ``vendor`` contains
``"C"``:
```

> "C":

Reviewer: S: correct this description so that it matches what the code example does. the code example matches documents where the ``vendors`` field is exactly `[ "A", "C" ]`

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/query.rs
      :start-after: begin-array
      :end-before: end-array
      :language: rust
      :dedent:
      

   .. output::
      :language: rust
      :visible: false

      {
         "_id": 4,
         "name": "pear",
         "quantity": 28,
         "price": 6,
         "vendors": [
            "A",
            "C"
         ]
      }

> For a full list of bitwise operators, see the :manual:`Bitwise
> Query Operators </reference/operator/query-array/>` page.

Reviewer: S: fix link text
```suggestion
For a full list of bitwise operators, see the :manual:`Array
Query Operators </reference/operator/query-array/>` page.
```

one set of match criteria to determine which documents to return. An
empty query filter matches all of the documents in a collection.

In a query filter, you can match fields with :ref:`literal values
<rust-literal-values>` or with query operators. Query operators allow
you to perform mathematical or logical operations to locate documents within a collection.

To match criteria with literal values use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   let filter = doc! { "<field>": "<value>" };

To match criteria that include query operators use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust
   :copyable: false

   let filter = doc! { "<field>": doc! { "<operator>": "<value>" } };

The examples in the following sections show how to specify queries by using the ``find()``
method to match documents in a collection.

This guide includes the following sections:

- :ref:`Sample Data for Examples <rust-query-sample-data>`: presents
  the sample data that is used by the read operation examples

- :ref:`Literal Values <rust-literal-values>`: describes how to
  query for data that exactly matches a value you provide in the query
  filter

> - :ref:`Comparison Operators <rust-query-operators>`: describes how to

Reviewer: S: make the link text exactly match what the sections are called (applies to all in this list)
```suggestion
- :ref:`Comparison <rust-query-operators>`: describes how to
```

  query for data based on comparisons with values in a collection

- :ref:`Logical Operators <rust-logical-operators>`: describes how to
  query for data using logic applied to the results of field-level operators

- :ref:`Element Operators <rust-element-operators>`: describes how to
  query based on the presence, absence, or type of field

- :ref:`Evaluation Operators <rust-evaluation-operators>`: describes how
  to execute higher-level logic, like regex and text searches, when
  querying for documents in a collection

> - :ref:`Bitwise Operators <rust-bitwise-operators>`: describes how to
>   query based on the equivalent bits set of a base-10 value when
>   querying for documents in a collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Bitwise Operators <rust-bitwise-operators>`: describes how to
  query based on the equivalent bits set of a base-10 value
```

- :ref:`Array Operators <rust-array-operators>`: describes how to query
  a collection based on data within an array-valued field.

.. _rust-query-sample-data:

Sample Data
-----------

The examples in this guide use the following sample documents. Each
document represents a fruit in a store's inventory and contains
information about its quantity. Some documents contain additional fields
that describe the fruit or its vendors:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: true

   { "_id": 1, "name": "orange", "quantity": 7 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "apple", "quantity": 4, "description": "Granny Smith" },

>    { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   { "_id": 3, "name": "banana", "quantity": 36 },
```
